.\" Copyright 2009 David Egan Evans
.\"
.\"This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
.\"warranty. In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
.\"arising from the use of this software.
.\"
.\"Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
.\"including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
.\"freely, subject to the following restrictions:
.\"
.\"1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must
.\"not claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this
.\"software in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation
.\"would be appreciated but is not required.
.\"
.\"2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must 
.\"not be misrepresented as being the original software.
.\"
.\" 3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.
.\"
.TH flaccda "1" "February 2013" "flaccda 0.5" "User Commands"
.SH NAME 
flaccda \- Rip FLAC or MP3 files from CD-ROM with ID3v1.1 style metadata
.SH SYNOPSIS
flaccda [flac|mp3|tag]
.LP
mp3cda
.LP
stripmb
.SH DESCRIPTION
These utilities may fail if access to the CD-ROM drive is restricted.
.SS flaccda
.B flaccda
reads from CD Audio Tracks (CDA), converts the PCM wave data to Free
Lossless Audio Codec (FLAC) format, adding metadata from CDDB, and
renaming the resulting files accordingly.
.PP
The following options are also available:
.PP
\fBflac\fR
Convert existing AIFF files to FLAC. This is primarily for debugging,
where tagging fails for some reason, after the CD-ROM is read and
converted to AIFF.
.PP
\fBmp3\fR
Convert existing FLAC files to MP3, without removing FLACs.
This allows an existing FLAC archive to be converted to MP3s.
.PP
\fBtag\fR
Add CDDB data to FLAC files in the current working directory (requires
Internet connection and corresponding CD). This is primarily for debugging.
.SS mp3cda
.B mp3cda
reads from CD Audio Tracks (CDA), converts the PCM wave data to to
MPEG-1 Audio Layer 3 (MP3) format, adding ID3 style metadata from CDDB,
and renaming the resulting files accordingly.
.SS stripmb
.B stripmb
removes unwanted MusicBrainz metadata from FLAC files in the current
working directory to make them consistent with those created by
.B flaccda.
.SH BUGS
A CD with more that 99 tracks may have incorrect metadata and file names,
or other unexpected behaviour.
.P
Foreign characters, and double quotes, in Title track names will cause
unexpected directory and file names. Slashes are not allowed in file names.
.P
Current versions of cdparanoia and cdda2wav (and presumably icedax) have
trouble with hidden tracks.
.P
FLAC to MP3 conversion does not always accurately preserve long metadata
strings when used with multiple files.
.P
.B flaccda
and
.B mp3cda
do not clean up after themselves, leaving AIFF residual.
.P
Report bugs, patches, etc. to D. E. Evans <sinuhe@gnu.org>

.SH SEE ALSO

.IR cdda2wav(1)
.IR cdparanoia(1)
.IR flac(1),
.IR lame(1),
.IR metaflac(1),

